you might think that nobody reads these
books
books that tell modern women and 21st
century
how they can be a slave to their
husbands
but melissa found out about this book a
book a book that we are
quite literally judging by the cover
here we're judging this book by the text
the synopsis on the back of the cover
but she found out about this book
because a
a friend on facebook which is to say a
complete stranger is not a friend at all
recommended it that someone was
currently reading this so real people
in the real world read these books and
the title of this book is
finding the hero in your husband
i'm not even going to read the subtitle
because i feel that's a spoiler
so this is the summary on the back the
back of the uh the back of the book
why can't he remember our anniversary
when he can recite
every super bowl winner since 1967.
this already gives you a sense of the
target audience for this book
quote he just doesn't understand that
after working all day and caring for the
kids
i'm just too tired to have sex close
quote
it's all strange that's the woman who's
assumed to be saying this not the man i
think that could be attributed to either
gender that statement all right
quote trying to get him to tell me how
he feels is like pulling teeth
close quote as a psychologist dr
julie slattery knows firsthand that many
women share the same frustrations about
their husbands
whether they're newly wedded or
celebrating a silver anniversary
as a christian wife and mother she too
struggled with similar issues until she
described discovered the one
simple truth about these seemingly
insensitive
and apathetic men
seemingly serious
um each one of them is a hero
while some may seem more like zeros than
heroes
dr slattery shows how every wife can
find her hero
whether he's just beginning to fade from
view or has disappeared altogether
as she explains god
it's actually just funny for me to see
god with a capital g like this god being
used unironically and i said it's pretty
rare i see that all right
as she explains god has given women
tremendous power in their relationships
unfortunately most women unwittingly
either ignore their power
or abuse it this indispensable guide
shows women had to use their strength in
ways that encourage their husband's
potential
instead of dominating and destroying it
while other advice books work well on
paper but not in practice
dr slattery helps women approach
everyday situations from paying the
bills and raising children
to getting him to keep the toilet seat
down and the intimacy level
up dr slattery explores the maligned and
misunderstood
s word submission
props were coming out and saying singing
on the back cover i mean in case you
thought that was in the subtext in case
you thought that was in the footnotes or
hidden away
this is this is exploring the much
misunderstood
s word submission she explains what it
is
what it isn't how women can support
their husbands will be true to their
dreams
and practical steps women can take if
they are living in a dictatorship
open to interpretation probing questions
and practical study guide exercises make
it ideal
for individual use or group study
that would be an interesting group to
attend we should
form a group a group a study group
proof discussion of submission in our
narrative okay
okay melissa take it away
well i think it's not that uncommon to
see
um videos online about
basically how to seduce women and yes
you've made a couple videos recently
about pickup artists and
you know i like your commentary on
pick-up artistry
um but this is a genre on the internet
that i
just haven't looked into like and i i
think there
are quite a few videos talking about
like how to
keep your man or like how to maintain
your relationship
and um that's already an interesting
asymmetry that with men
what's being marketed and what's being
sold to them is how to seduce a woman
how to initiate a relationship
but with women it's how to keep a man
right that's also interesting that it's
not the seduction
it's not the initiation stage of women
it's sustaining yeah
this is already an interesting
difference yeah you gotta hold your man
down and that's i think that's not
because one prop one
one gender or the other doesn't have the
opposite problem but that that's what
people are paying for
that's that's what there's a market for
us people are buying yeah but the it's
it you're right though it's always it's
how to keep a man that's what's being
sold to women
yeah and of course this is more popular
i think in
christian circles of women like women
who believe
that you know they've found a man and to
be a good woman you have to
you know do what you can to make the
relationship last and
part of this description which is you
know
kind of sad is that she's saying
even if your man has seemed to like
distance himself from you
that this is this book is going to help
you you know
get back in touch with him and uh you
know he's
he's only apathetic because you're not
doing something right you're not
understanding that he's a hero and he's
got something that
you're not you're not harnessing it you
know you're not you're not helping him
pursue his dreams and achieve his dreams
right well i mean two two things that
are idealized here
much like god with a capital g i mean
one
we have the idea that the role of
husband or even the role of man
doesn't really use the word husband the
role of the man
is somehow much more powerful than the
particular man
like it doesn't matter if your
particular man is a lazy slob who just
cares about watching football on
television or something
that he is a hero he has this role and
that has this this
you know tremendous significance i think
the other kind of fetish here
is the treatment of the relationship as
something abstract and important apart
from
the particular pair of people who are
relate relating you know
i don't i don't think either one of
those things is true you know i think a
relationship is only as good as the two
people who are part of it and just
just give a really quick parallelism um
let's say you have a school
with six teachers i think that school is
as good as the six people
who work in that school you know what i
mean i don't think of the school you
know okay you can have an abstract ideal
of education
but no we got these six people working
on a team trying to run a school
and that's that's all it is it's kind of
it's neither more nor less than some of
its parts
you know in a down-to-earth attitude is
look he's not man with a capital m
he's a particular man and you're a
particular woman and the relationship
has no
existence you know outside of these
these particular details about
particular people
yeah i do find that funny at the
beginning we were saying like
he can remember all the winners of the
super bowl but he can't remember my
birthday
right you know um just differences in
what
men and women find important in their
partner
um are they culturally influenced
and let's let's get to the most maligned
and misunderstood word of all here
melissa
yes let's get this submission let's hear
you speak on that
well sorry to keep relating to like
videos that you've made but
um you know uh part of
i think a lot of uh interest that
and okay publicly stating your interest
in sexual like proclivities online
um it's it's about like putting things
out on the internet like or putting
things out in the world that like
maybe should just be in the bedroom and
like
what's interesting to me is like this
where's the line between what you can
talk about
publicly right and what it should be a
private matter between
like you and a partner right um so yeah
i mean i know you've talked about
like uh this in terms of transgender um
right right right and you know just
recently just earlier today you made a
video about
like this kink with uh nuns you know
right um
not my kink i know
i know from my perspective i have no
kinks but i might be biased
well yes part of this book is saying
that submission makes you a good woman
and
right to be you know
a woman that is going to be a good wife
a good mother you have to understand
what submission means uh
don't you think there's just a kind of
selective blindness here
to the extent to which making a marriage
work also always entails submission on
the part of the man
like yeah of course whatever it is i
mean even if it's just
how you decorate the bathroom or what
you're eating for dinner that night i
mean i think
i think a marriage always entails 10 000
tiny submissions on either part
i yeah absolutely yeah
unless unless is the man you micromanage
really every decision the woman makes i
mean there's just
i mean i'm even talking about if the
woman's a housewife or what have you
housewives have tremendous who you marry
if you marry a woman she's your
housewife
she influences everything about your
daily life i mean you know there are
things you're going to submit to or
compromise with as the man
you know big and small anyway sorry
maybe an overly simple
yeah i mean sorry i'm not trying to go
too much
off topic but i do think that uh
veganism is
like women do have more of a role with
veganism because like if they're
at home like cooking oh yeah
yeah like yeah some people control the
kitchen and control the family
this this idea about the woman's role
yeah yeah
anyway um i think you know you
you do struggle with the cultural
perception of of submission
you know in a marriage relationship we
have a very unequal relationship in many
ways
and i do hear both sides of it from you
i mean for one thing
the reality is our relationship has made
it possible for you to travel around the
world
to be on youtube great lecture that is
yeah no it's
made it possible for you to study
languages and really study anything you
want to study or do whatever you want to
do with your life you've looked at and
tried several different career paths
most disastrously baking yeah you know
um and now you're enrolling in classes
as a university student again getting a
second university degree and
you know learning chinese but i do also
hear from you the other side that every
so often there's this side of you that
still really feels or thinks
you ought to be independent and the
nature of this
relationship is you know intensely
dependent and there's no there's no
independence for either one of us
frankly right you know but particularly
not for you
i mean you know i mean i think that is
something you you struggle with
and i would just mention i don't think
the christians have a monopoly on this
especially if you look at christian
traditionally christian cultures like
france or spain or italy i mean these
are massive massive problems even for
atheists even people born and raised
atheists and those in those
cultures to what extent to what extent
is it desirable
to have independence rather than i mean
submission is a loaded word
right and maybe i mean to me what seems
to be going on in this genre of
self-help fiction
is trying to tell women if only you
submit all the way
then this is going to guarantee that
your relationship will last it'll
guarantee that it'll work and of course
it doesn't
i mean there's there is no guarantee
precisely what makes your lack of
independence terrifying
is the awareness that this relationship
could fall apart or the marriage could
end in divorce or what have you
and then if you're a woman who doesn't
have a career or doesn't own her own
home and car or what have you this this
is and it's again
to be fair it's terrifying for men also
but i mean i i just say
it seems to me that this these issues of
submissiveness and independence in the
21st century
this is something unless you're a
multi-millionaire it's something
everyone is struggling with unless you
are
so wealthy that you don't have to worry
it's something i think every
relationship is now haunted by
yeah i think the person that told me
about this book
she is a young mother and
definitely i can see that she hasn't
like started a career
um like of course
maybe the christian ideal for her was
that she would get married out of high
school
and uh have a baby right away and
yeah it does put you in a position where
you're not
able to be independent like if something
were to go wrong if your relationship
fell apart
um or if you're dissatisfied with the
relationship if you're trying to be
honest with yourself like oh this isn't
going well i'm going to read this book
to try to like
right so what what bargaining position
are you in to improve the relationship
if you really do believe in submission
and if that is your yeah
yeah i go on i know it's it's terrifying
when you think about it
yeah and part of the the description for
this was
that if you understand submission and
like talking about the power of the
female being
in submission like the power that women
have in a relationship
and idolizing the man at the same time
it's very strange but going yeah yeah
right and there was even a comment there
that was like you know women
dominate men or manipulations or
something like this
um some men pay extra for that so
prefer that i think it's you know
different strokes for different folks
yeah no yeah it's definitely not a i
just i just
play male female i i you know i admit
the christian side of the story i find a
little bit boring
however it is important and you know for
those of us who've actually read the
bible what the old testament is based on
is not men living in living in
monogamous relationships
it's men who own slaves it's men who
have sex with their servants with female
servants
it's men who openly get their servants
and slaves
pregnant and of course also men who have
multiple wives
all of this is in the bible um and worse
so you know for those who actually read
the bible
um you know without even getting into
you know some of some of the
historical kings legendary kings you
might say allegedly you know stroke
kings
but in terms of what could be taken as
average men and normal ideas
of uh you know buying and selling women
and slavery and
and marriage and and divorce and so on
and you know men are selling their own
daughters into slavery and so on
uh you know i i just say the christian
ideal
like many things in american
conservatism today instead seems to be
based on a kind of
black and white memory of television
shows from the 1950s
and not any kind of really sincere
engagement with the religion
no yes it's not based on what's in the
bible i think most people who are true
believing christians would say
you know the bible was written so many
years ago
life's different now but we're still
going to use parts of the bible
in everyday life and we're going to live
a
more traditional lifestyle but but not
for example the song of solomon
sorry openly openly erotic part of the
bible
who's saying there are you know there
are
again not not my passion in life but
there's a different way to look at
the bible and how it really decided
today but no i'd just differ with you i
do think the author of this book
really has the delusion that she is the
author of this book
is not just providing open-ended talk
therapy but that she is doing the will
of god
that this is a kind of divine it's that
she i think she is genuinely treated as
a divine revelation that women should
submit to men
that that is the one and only way to
organize marriage and so on yeah
i mean you and i are sitting here saying
well yeah different strokes are
different folks
but this is you know this is exactly a
reaction against that tendency
yeah well somebody wrote into not too
long ago
that their experience with meditation uh
they went to
yeah like a retreat yeah it was if you
passed never truly what they came the
conclusion that they came to after i
don't know however many days it was
was that people can be made to believe
anything and
you can believe in right and
it is is just um
something i've been reflecting on lately
just the the malleability of the human
mind
and and how it can be right
right but subtly influenced one way or
the other or
also just overtly influenced one way or
the other isn't it harder
to believe in a real person whom you
really know
you know and who you see lying on the
couch watching sports every day as
opposed to believing in an abstract
ideal
or a god or a hero who's just absent you
know
i mean to believe in someone like bill
clinton
you know who you see in here on tv to
some extent and then part of his
life is shrouded in mystery is off camp
that's something else again the
so-called parasocial relationships
you know but to believe it to believe in
a character in a book
is one thing but to believe in your
husband that way
you know i i i find that difficult
almost impossible
anyway melissa has a very high opinion
of me but i mean
if anything i make great efforts to kind
of exhibit my shortcomings you
to kind of draw attention to them like
look here's something i'm bad at here's
where
here's where my expertise ends and even
some of the reading we're doing right
now
i said this another conversation
recently one of the reasons why we're
reading the books we are right now is
because
it's it's not in my area of expertise
it's something we're both
equally ignorant of and we're learning
at the same pace as opposed to a topic i
mean if we're reading the history of
cambodia
i have a big advantage over her you know
but uh yeah i mean you know
um i just say the role of belief
i think it is much easier to make a hero
out of a
fictional character in a novel than
someone you really know and really
understand and really
so by the same token i mean why what is
submission
the the solution to how low an opinion
do you have to have of yourself
to think that the best thing you can do
to make your marriage better
or make the world a better place is is
to submit
i don't know yeah no it's true i mean
yeah that is i definitely
have a very high opinion of you and um
but you are just a human being
yeah and i don't see on any of these
issues i don't see your role as
submitting i mean even something like
choosing what we're going to study in
university and what what our career
plans
all that stuff even our travel plans oh
oh kind sorry i just say all that stuff
go on but yeah i mean just say it's you
you don't have a submissive role in that
whatever even crap like booking hotel
rooms or
train tickets yeah and have been kind of
uh she she built it like you know i've
been kind of like she planned the whole
trip to greece sorry just giving credit
[Music]
but anyway there have been things where
you actually took the lead where you
were not submissive well you were really
the person in charge
that's right yeah and actually you're
all about
like responsibility you know
a lot of what we've been through is that
i've had
trouble accepting responsibility for
some of the things that
uh i've done wrong in the past and
like yeah yeah i i think
part of submission is is like saying uh
maybe it's more attractive that way
because you said like well i was just
submitting to whatever
you were uh like i don't know
along with submission comes abdication
of responsibility with submission you're
washing your hands and saying it's not
my decision it's not my fault right yeah
yeah yeah absolutely so that's also kind
of dangerous i think
as an adult female like you still are
responsible for what you do and
you can well i've recorded this before
on the channel maybe maybe this is
wrapping up the video but you know
um i quoted before the judgment of an
historian about laos
so laos is a small country in southeast
asia next to cambodia and
thailand he said simply
you know with the passage of time
buddhism
proved to be more aesthetically durable
than communism
and i just thought that was an
interesting concept to think about
ideas and ideals it's really about
ideals as being
durable you know and a lot of that kind
of hype
um i just don't think it's durable
like i think you could be swept up in a
romance and
for five years you know this kind of
ethic of
submission and devotion but it's gonna
get old
it's gonna i i can't see it lasting 10
years for anyone i just can't i think
that your own personal initiative and
no i'm just being honest with you you
know and
a lot of people do live in this kind of
um
toxic nostalgia of wishing they could go
back to the seduction phase of their
relationship i don't know if you've
known couples with like oh i remember
how it was when i first met him
you know whatever it's like no homie
that's that's not life
you know you you don't get to go back to
being a teenager again you don't get to
go back to the to falling in love again
you get you get to have a relationship
and working and so you know and again it
is interesting that a lot of the female
focus
is on keeping a man on sustaining a
relationship not on that
not only butterflies in your stomach you
know period of first
first falling in love but uh yeah
yeah right i think i think there's a
question of not just the validity of the
the ideal but the durability of the
ideal it's a different different way of
thinking about it
yeah yeah for sure for sure so i see i
see submission
and dominance as as not terribly durable
that's my final good
good uh yeah